Reference - https://www.interviewbit.com/sql-interview-questions/

1. What is Database?
A database is an organized collection of data, stored and retrieved digitally from a remote or local computer system. 
Databases can be vast and complex, and such databases are developed using fixed design and modeling approaches.

2. What is DBMS?
DBMS stands for Database Management System. DBMS is a system software responsible for the creation, retrieval, updation and management of the database. 
It ensures that our data is consistent, 
organized and is easily accessible by serving as an interface between the database and its end users or application softwares.

3. What is RDBMS? How is it different from DBMS?
RDBMS stands for Relational Database Management System. The key difference here, compared to DBMS, is that RDBMS stores data in the form of a collection of tables 
and relations can be defined between the common fields of these tables. 
Most modern database management systems like MySQL, Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle, IBM DB2 and Amazon Redshift are based on RDBMS.

4. What is SQL?
SQL stands for Structured Query Language. It is the standard language for relational database management systems. 
It is especially useful in handling organized data comprised of entities (variables) and relations between different entities of the data.

5. What is the difference between SQL and MySQL?
SQL is a standard language for retrieving and manipulating structured databases. 
On the contrary, MySQL is a relational database management system, like SQL Server, Oracle or IBM DB2, that is used to manage SQL databases.

6. What are Tables and Fields?
A table is an organized collection of data stored in the form of rows and columns. 
Columns can be categorized as vertical and rows as horizontal. The columns in a table are called fields while the rows can be referred to as records.


Constraints are used to specify the rules concerning data in the table. 
It can be applied for single or multiple fields in an SQL table during creation of table or after creationg using the ALTER TABLE command. The constraints are:
NOT NULL - Restricts NULL value from being inserted into a column.
CHECK - Verifies that all values in a field satisfy a condition.
DEFAULT - Automatically assigns a default value if no value has been specified for the field.
UNIQUE - Ensures unique values to be inserted into the field.
INDEX - Indexes a field providing faster retrieval of records.
PRIMARY KEY - Uniquely identifies each record in a table.
FOREIGN KEY - Ensures referential integrity for a record in another table.


What is a Primary Key?
The PRIMARY KEY constraint uniquely identifies each row in a table. It must contain UNIQUE values and has an implicit NOT NULL constraint.
A table in SQL is strictly restricted to have one and only one primary key, which is comprised of single or multiple fields (columns).
CREATE TABLE Students ( 	 /* Create table with a single field as primary key */
    ID INT NOT NULL
    Name VARCHAR(255)
    PRIMARY KEY (ID)
);

CREATE TABLE Students ( 	 /* Create table with multiple fields as primary key */
    ID INT NOT NULL
    LastName VARCHAR(255)
    FirstName VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
    CONSTRAINT PK_Student
    PRIMARY KEY (ID, FirstName)
);

ALTER TABLE Students 	 /* Set a column as primary key */
ADD PRIMARY KEY (ID);

ALTER TABLE Students 	 /* Set multiple columns as primary key */
ADD CONSTRAINT PK_Student 	 /*Naming a Primary Key*/
PRIMARY KEY (ID, FirstName);


Difference between Delete and Truncate:
Delete - Deletes a row in a table.
       - can rollback
       - DML
       - slower than truncate.
Truncate - Deletes all the rows in a table.
         - faster 
         - cannot roll back
         - DDL
Subsets of SQL - DDL - used to define database schema
               - DML - used to manipulate database
	       - DCL - Used to Controll permissions.(User access etc)
	       - TCL - used for rollback operations etc.
Char and Varchar- 
		Char is used only for Strings of fixed length Eg - Char(10)-- Used only for Strings of length 10 .
                 Varchar is used for Character Strings of variable length - Eg - varchar2(10) - Can store any length i.e 6,8,2 

Clustered Index - One table can have only one Clustered Index.
                - faster
                - It rearranges the data in Sorting order using the column upon which clustered Index has been applied.
Non Clustered - Slower than Clustered
              - Table can have multiple Non Clustered Indexes 
              - Doesnot alter the way the data is stored , Creates a separate object within a table which points back to original table rows after searching. 